The below form is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

Attachment 1 

MASTER TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
SOFTWARE-AS-A-SERVICE  
AGREEMENT1 

These  Master  Terms  and  Conditions  are  made  and  entered  into  on  this  ___  day  of  ______,  20[  ]  (the 
“Effective  Date”),  by  and  between  [COMPANY],  a  [______]  corporation  with  its  principal  offices 
located at [___________________________] (“SaaS Provider”) and [CLIENT] with its principal office 
located  at  [___________________________]  (“Client”),  (each,  a  “Party”  and  collectively,  the 
“Parties”).  These Master Terms and Conditions and the Order(s), Statement(s) of Work,  and  Exhibits 
attached  hereto  or  referencing  these  Master  Terms  and  Conditions  are  collectively  referred  to  as  the 
“Agreement.”2 

1. 

DEFINITIONS. 

1.1 

“Affiliate”  means,  with  respect  to  any  entity,  any  other  present  or  future  entity 
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such entity.  For the purposes of this definition, 
control  (and  its  derivatives)  means,  with  respect  to  any  entity,  the  possession,  direct  or  indirect,  of  the 
power  to  solely  direct  or  cause  the  direction  of  the  management  or  policies  of  such  entity,  whether 
through the ownership of voting securities (or other ownership interest), by contract or otherwise.   

1.2 

“Application  Platform”  or  “Platform” means  SaaS  Provider’s  proprietary application 
software  and/or  web-site,  including  all  modules,  functions,  features  identified  in  an  Order,  SOW,  or 
otherwise generally made available by SaaS Provider to its customers, and all technology resources and 
infrastructure  (e.g.,  hardware,  third  party  software,  etc.)  supporting  the  Services.  The  Application 
Platform includes all updates, releases, improvements, and corrections to the Application Platform.  

1.3 

“Cardholder  Data”  has  the  meaning  provided  in  the  PCI-DSS3,  including  (1)  with 
respect to a payment card or similar data, the account holder’s name, account number, service code, card 
validation  code/value,  PIN  or  PIN  block,  valid  to  and  from  dates  and  magnetic  stripe  data;  and 
(2) information relating to a payment card transaction that is identifiable with a specific account. 

1.4 

“Client  Data”  means  any  proprietary  or  confidential  content,  information,  data  and 
materials of any kind, including End User Data4 and Cardholder Data, which is provided to or processed 
by SaaS Provider in connection with its provision of the Services. 

1  This  form  is  fairly  generic,  and  somewhat  customer-favorable.    Certain  possible  reactions  to  these 
provisions are set out in the footnotes.  This form is presented solely as a starting point and would need to be tailored 
to each specific negotiation and fact pattern.  This form is not meant to be and is not legal advice. 

2 The structure of this form is a master agreement with orders under it. 

3  This  form  assumes  payment  is  processed  by  the  provider,  and  therefore  credit  data  would  need  to  be 
handled  using  this  standard.    In  each  case,  the  applicable  data  protection  regimes  would  need  to  be  considered 
(GLBA, HIPAA, etc.).  The customer needs to understand what its data protection needs are, and provider needs to 
be clear on whether it can comply. 

4  The  End  User  Data-related  provisions  would  need  to  be  updated  to  cover  GDPR  and/or  CCPA,  as 

applicable. 

ACC FORM  

1 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

1.5 

“Confidential Information” means any and all technical, business, client or proprietary 
information disclosed by one Party (the “Disclosing Party”) to the other Party (the “Receiving Party”), 
directly or indirectly, including, but not limited to, information regarding the Disclosing Party’s business 
strategies and practices, methodologies, trade secrets, know-how, pricing, technology, software, product 
plans,  services,  relationships  with  any  third  party,  client  lists  and  information  regarding  the  Disclosing 
Party’s employees, clients, vendors, consultants and Affiliates regardless of whether such information is 
marked “confidential” or some other proprietary designation, but which by its nature is information that 
would  reasonably  be  considered  to  be  confidential  information  of  the  Disclosing  Party.    In  the  case  of 
SaaS Provider, Confidential Information includes the Application Platform source code.  In the case of 
Client, Confidential Information includes all Client Data and any information relating to Client’s users. 

1.6 

“Data Center” means the secure facility(ies) in which the servers, computer equipment 
and  ancillary  hardware  used  to  host  and  operate  the  Application  Platform  reside.    The  primary  Data 
Center(s) is/are located in [______] and the secondary Data Center(s) is/are located in [________] as of 
the Effective Date, as each may be updated in accordance with this Agreement.5   

1.7 

“Documentation”  means  SaaS  Provider’s  user  guides  and  manuals  relating  to  the 

Services and Application Platform, including on-line help, as updated and amended from time to time.  

1.8 

“End User Data” means all data and information collected from an end-user of Client or 

its Affiliates, including, without limitation, any personally identifiable information or Cardholder Data. 

1.9 

“Implementation Services” means the data migration, implementation, integration (e.g., 
APIs),  enhancement,  and  development  services  described  in  an  Order  or  SOW  that  SaaS  Provider  will 
complete to comply with the specifications and requirements set out in such Order or SOW.   

1.10 

“include” and “including” mean including without limitation. 

1.11 

“Intellectual  Property”  means  all  algorithms,  application  programming  interfaces 
(APIs), apparatus, concepts, Confidential Information, data, databases and data collections, deliverables, 
designs, diagrams, documentation, drawings, flow charts, formulae, ideas and inventions (whether or not 
patentable  or  reduced  to  practice),  know-how,  materials,  marketing  and  development  plans,  marks 
(including  brand  names,  product  names,  logos  and  slogans),  methods,  models,  procedures,  processes, 
schematics,  software  code  (in  any  form  including  source  code  and  executable  or  object  code), 
specifications,  subroutines,  techniques,  tools,  uniform  resource  identifiers,  user  interfaces,  works  of 
authorship, and other forms of technology. 

1.12 

“Intellectual  Property  Rights”  means  all  past,  present,  and  future  rights  of  the 
following types, which may exist or be created under the laws of any jurisdiction in the world: (a) rights 
associated with works of authorship, including exclusive exploitation rights, copyrights, moral rights, and 
mask work rights; (b) trademark and trade name rights and similar rights; (c) trade secret rights; (d) patent 
and  industrial  property  rights;  (e)  other  proprietary  rights  in  Intellectual  Property  of  every  kind  and 
nature;  and  (f)  rights  in  or  relating  to  registrations,  renewals,  extensions,  combinations,  divisions,  and 
reissues of, and applications for, any of the rights referred to in clauses (a) through (e) of this sentence. 

1.13 

“Order”  means  an  order  pursuant  to  which  from  time  to  time  Client  orders  SaaS 

Services or rights to the Application Platform.   

5 This gives the customer a veto right over where the data is hosted. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

1.14 

“Order Start Date” means the date on which the SaaS Services commences and is set 

forth in the applicable Order.6 

1.15 

“Payment  Brand”  means  the  PCI  Security  Standards  Council  and  any  credit  or  debit 
card provider, gift card provider, or other stored value and loyalty program card provider, including, but 
not limited to, American Express, Visa, U.S.A., Inc., MasterCard International, Inc., Discover Financial 
Services, LLC, and JCB International. 

1.16 

“PCI DSS”  means  the  current  version  of  the  Payment  Card  Industry  Data  Security 

Standard, as such may be amended, modified, supplemented, or replaced from time to time.  

1.17 

“Professional  Services”  means  the  services  identified  as  such  in  a  SOW  or  this 
Agreement.  Professional Services include Implementation Services and consulting services.  Professional 
Services do not include SaaS Services. 

1.18 

“SaaS Services” means the services that are ordered by Client under an Order, including 
(i) limited access and use rights to the  Application Platform, (ii) hosting services, (iii) support services, 
and  (iv) any  other  similar generally  applicable services  that  SaaS  Provider provides to its  customers  in 
accordance with the Documentation. SaaS Services do not include Professional Services. 

1.19 

“Security  Event” is an  event  where:  (i)  End  User  Data  or  Confidential  Information  of 
Client  in  SaaS  Provider’s  or  its  subcontractors’  possession  or  control  is  accessed  or  received  by  an 
individual or entity not authorized to access or receive such information, (ii) there is a reasonable basis to 
believe that End User Data or Confidential Information of Client in SaaS Provider’s or its subcontractors’ 
possession or control may have been accessed or received by an unauthorized individual or entity, (iii) an 
individual  or  entity  authorized  under  this  Agreement  to  use  or  access  End  User  Data  or  Confidential 
Information  of  Client  is  using,  or  reasonably  suspected  of  using,  any  End  User  Data  or  Confidential 
Information  of  Client  in  a  manner  not  authorized  under  this  Agreement,  or  (iv)  End  User  Data  or 
Confidential  Information  of  Client  in  Client’s  (or  its  third  party  contractors’)  possession  or  control  is 
accessed  (or  there  is  a  reasonable  basis  to  believe  may  have  been  accessed)  through  the  Application 
Platform in a manner or for a purpose not authorized under this Agreement or permitted under applicable 
laws or regulations. 

1.20 

“Services” means, collectively, the Professional Services and SaaS Services. 

Other terms are defined in the context in which they are used throughout the Agreement. 

2. 

SOFTWARE-AS-A-SERVICE RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS, AND LIMITATIONS. 

2.1 

Provision of SaaS Services and Application Platform.  Subject to the provisions of this 
Agreement, SaaS Provider will make available to Client and its designated Affiliates and their end users 
on  a  non-exclusive  and  non-transferable  basis  the  SaaS  Services,  Application  Platform,  and 
Documentation  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  Order,  Documentation,  and  other  terms  of  this 
Agreement.    Unless  expressly  provided  otherwise,  SaaS  Provider  will  be  responsible  for:  (i)  hosting, 
operating,  maintaining,  and  supporting  the  Application  Platform;  (ii)  providing  standard  support  at  no 

6  The  parties  need  to  determine  whether  the  “go-live”  date  is  the  date  on  which  the  service  term  (and 
payment obligations) begin.  The provider may want the service term to start immediately.  This can be important 
for both parties as (for example) auto-renewals are tracked. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

additional charge  (and/or  specialized support if  identified on  an  Order  or  SOW);  (iii)  making  available 
and implementing upgrades, enhancements, and error corrections when such upgrades, enhancements and 
error  corrections  are  generally  made  available;  and  (iv)  providing  disaster  recovery  and  business 
continuity capabilities in accordance with industry standards and the plan set forth in Exhibit B (Disaster 
Recovery Plan) (the “Disaster Recovery Plan”).  The Application Platform and Client Data may only be 
hosted at the Data Center(s) identified in this Agreement or otherwise approved by Client.  SaaS Provider 
will furnish all equipment, computer programs, resources and services necessary for furnishing the SaaS 
Services and Application Platform to Client and its end users, except as expressly provided otherwise in 
this Agreement.   

2.2 

Access and Use Rights.  Client will be responsible for providing its own Internet access 
to  the  Application  Platform.    SaaS  Provider  may  specify  reasonable  procedures  in  the  Documentation 
according to which Client and end users may establish and obtain such access to and use of the features 
and  functions  of  the  SaaS  Services  and  Application  Platform  through  the  Internet,  including,  without 
limitation,  provision  of  any  access  codes,  passwords,  web-sites,  connectivity  standards  or  protocols,  or 
any other relevant procedures.   Subject to the terms of this Agreement, SaaS Provider hereby grants to 
Client  the  non-transferable  (except  as  otherwise  permitted  by  this  Agreement),  non-exclusive,  non-
sublicensable, limited right and license to use and access the SaaS Services and Application Platform in 
accordance with the applicable Order(s), Documentation, and other provisions of this Agreement.7  Such 
rights and license include the right for  Client, its Affiliates, and all of their employees, representatives, 
contractors,  customers,  and  members,  as  applicable,  to  use  and  access  the  Application  Platform  in 
connection with their relationship to Client.   

2.3 

Orders.  The initial Order is attached hereto as Exhibit A (Order Form) and includes all 
attachments thereto.  If Client desires to access or use additional SaaS Services or Platform Applications 
and/or  increase  any  limitation  on  the  number  of  named  users,  concurrent  users,  devices,  location, 
transactions, or other elements, as applicable (“Unit of Measure”), in the initial Order or any subsequent 
Order,  the  authorized  representatives  of  the  Parties  will  execute  a  new  Order.    The  pricing  for  any 
increase  in  any  Unit  of  Measure  will  not  exceed  the  pricing  per  Unit  of  Measure  for  the  prior  order, 
subject  to  annual  rights  to  escalate  price  as  described  in  Section  5.38.    Upon  SaaS  Provider’s  written 
acceptance of the new Order, which acceptance will not be unreasonably withheld, such new Order will 
be  effective.    All  Orders  are  subject  to  and  hereby  incorporate  all  Exhibits  and  the  terms  of  this 
Agreement.   

2.4 

Limitations on Use.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Client will not: (i) 
sell, rent, lease, sublicense or otherwise transfer or distribute the Application Platform or Documentation 
or  any  copies  of  the  Application  Platform  or  Documentation;    (ii)  modify,  translate,  reverse  engineer, 
decompile or disassemble the  Application Platform; (iii) create or prepare derivative works based upon 
the  Application  Platform;  (iv)  create  any  copy  of  or  “mirror”  the  Application  Platform;  or  (v)  alter, 
destroy  or  otherwise  remove  any  proprietary  notices  or  labels  on  or  embedded  within  the  Application 
Platform or Documentation. 

7 This is a “license” but one that is limited to the right to access the platform, not to access the underlying 

technology. 

8 This agreement gives the customer year-over-year pricing protections.  The provider may want to remove 

any cap, unless the customer commits to some minimum term. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

2.5 

Escrow.  Within thirty (30) days of execution of this Agreement, Client will be added as 
a  beneficiary  to  SaaS  Provider’s  standard  Escrow  Agreement  reasonably  acceptable  to  Client  (or  any 
successor  escrow  agreement  so  long  as  the  material  terms  of  such  are  substantially  the  same). 
Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary,  SaaS  Provider  will  pay  any  costs  relating  to  Client  being  a 
standard beneficiary under the Escrow Agreement.  If Client desires any escrow verification services from 
the  escrow  agent,  the  costs  of  such  services  will  be  as  mutually  agreed.    SaaS  Provider  hereby  grants 
Client  a  non-exclusive  right  and  license  to  copy  and  use  any  materials  released  under  the  escrow 
agreement  to  perform  and  provide  (or  have  a  third  party  contractor  perform  and  provide)  the  SaaS 
Services and Application Platform for Client.9  

2.6 

Affiliate  Participation.10    SaaS  Provider  agrees  that  Affiliates  may  procure  additional 
SaaS Services and access to the Application Platform relating to their business and operations pursuant to 
the  terms  and  conditions  of  this  Agreement  upon  execution  of  an  Order  by  an  Affiliate,  in  which  case 
such Affiliate will be deemed to be a party hereunder with the same rights and obligations as Client, and 
the  terms  of  this  Agreement  will  be  incorporated  into  the  Order  executed  by  the  Affiliate,  but  such 
Affiliate  will  be  invoiced  separately  and  will  be  solely  responsible  to  SaaS  Provider  for  its  respective 
obligations  and  liabilities  under  this  Agreement.    An  Affiliate  or  SaaS  Provider  may  terminate  this 
Agreement as it applies to such Affiliate in the same manner that Client or SaaS Provider may terminate 
this Agreement, but any such termination by an Affiliate will apply only to such Affiliate.  All licenses or 
Services  procured  by  Client  and  by  all  Affiliates  will  be  aggregated  for  purposes  of  determining  any 
volume-based price discounts under this Agreement. 

3. 

ANCILLARY PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. 

3.1 

Implementation  Services.    SaaS  Provider  will  provide  Implementation  Services  as 

described in Exhibit C (Implementation Services) and/or the applicable Order or Statement of Work.   

3.2 

Additional  Professional  Services.    Client  may  elect  from  time-to-time  to  obtain  from 
SaaS Provider Professional Services relating to the Application Platform that are in addition to the SaaS 
Services  including,  customized  user  training,  specialized  support,  integration,  enhancements,  and 
development pursuant to a Statement of Work (each, a “SOW”).  Each SOW will describe the fees, costs 
and expenses payable by Client to SaaS Provider and any assumptions or dependencies relating to such 
Professional Services. 

3.3 

Changes.    A  Party  may  request  a  modification  to  the  SaaS  Services,  Application 
Platform, Professional Services, or any applicable SOW or Order by written request to the other Party in 
accordance with the Change Control Procedures set forth in Exhibit D (Change Control Procedurs). Any 
request  for  a  Change  Order  to  the  Services  or  Application  Platform  that  SaaS  Provider  intends  to 
generally offer or provide to its other customers will not be chargeable to  Client (or allocated to  Client 
and such other customers as and if mutually agreed).  Change Orders will be performed under the terms 
of  this  Agreement  and  the  applicable  SOW  once  mutually  agreed.  Changes  in  any  SOW  will  become 
effective only when executed by authorized representatives of both Parties.  

9 Customers frequently ask for escrows.  The provider might consider pushing back and asking whether the 
customer as a practical matter could use the escrow.  It is not simple to stand up a new instance of a cloud platform. 

10  The  provider  should  consider  whether  it  wants  to  allow  every  affiliate  to  sign  up  for  the  service  (and 
should avoid offering an enterprise license price across all affiliates).  The provider also may want to specify that the 
affiliates must affirmatively accept the terms of the MSA. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

4. 

SERVICE LEVELS. 

4.1 

Service Levels.  The SaaS Services, Application Platform, and Professional Services, as 
applicable, will meet or exceed (from the perspective of Client) the minimum service level standards set 
out  in  Exhibit  E  (Service  Levels)  (each  a  “Service  Level”  or  “SLA”  and  collectively  the  “Service 
Levels” or “SLAs”).  In the event any SLA is not met or exceeded, SaaS Provider will promptly notify 
Client,  promptly  take  corrective  action  to  remedy  the  problem,  take  preventative  measures  so  that  the 
failure does not recur, and Client will be entitled to recover the applicable amount of service level credits 
specified in Exhibit E (Service Levels) (“Service Level Credits”).   

4.2 

Service  Level  Disputes.    If  at  any  time  Client  reasonably  disputes  SaaS  Provider’s 
determination of whether a Service Level Credit is due or the calculation of a Service Level Credit, then 
within ten (10) business days of SaaS Provider’s receipt of written notice of such dispute, the Parties will 
discuss the disputed Service Level Credit in good faith in an attempt to resolve the dispute.  In the event 
that  the  Parties  are  unable  to  resolve  the  dispute  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  Client’s  notice  to  SaaS 
Provider, Client may pursue any remedy available, at law or in equity.  Upon Client’s reasonable request, 
SaaS  Provider  will  provide  Client  with  all  reasonable  information,  documentation  and  access  to  the 
measurement  and  monitoring  tools  necessary  to  verify  compliance  by  SaaS  Provider  with  the  SLAs 
including, without limitation, providing Client with access to or copies of all records and documentation 
relating to any problem giving rise to an SLA failure and related credits.   

4.3 

Continuous Improvement.  SaaS Provider will use commercially reasonable efforts to 
cause the  SaaS Services and Application Platform to continuously improve and evolve with changes in 
the industry as  reasonably determined by  SaaS Provider (or otherwise provided in an Order), including 
with respect to accepted industry practices and processes and compliance requirements, at no additional 
fee or expense to Client; provided, however,  additional modules or services that  SaaS Provider charges 
customers generally for and which Client orders will be reasonably priced and chargeable in accordance 
with the applicable Order and this Agreement.   

5. 

FEES. 

5.1 

SaaS Fees.  Client will pay to SaaS Provider the charges set forth in the applicable Order 
and/or  Exhibit  F  (Pricing;  Invoicing;  Expense  Reimbursement)  for  the  provision  and  use  of  the  SaaS 
Services and Application Platform (the “SaaS Charges”), subject to the other provisions of this Section 5 
(Fees) and Exhibit F (Pricing; Invoicing; Expense Reimbursement).  

5.2 

Professional Services Fees.  Client will pay to SaaS Provider the charges set forth in the 
applicable  SOW  and/or  Exhibit  C  (implementation  Services)  for  the  Professional  Services  (the 
“Professional  Services  Charges”),  subject  to  the  other  provisions  of  this  Section  5  and  Exhibit  F 
(Pricing; Invoicing; Expense Reimbursement).   

5.3 

Automatic Renewal of SaaS Services.  Within ninety (90) days of the expiration of the 
then  current  Term  and  any  renewal  term for  the  SaaS  Services, SaaS  Provider  will  notify  Client  of  the 
upcoming  expiration  and  any  proposed  charges  for  the  renewal  term.11    The  proposed  charges  for  any 
SaaS Service renewal term will not exceed the charges for the prior year, plus the lesser of (i) 3% of such 
prior year’s SaaS Charges or (ii) the increase in SaaS Provider’s list prices for SaaS Charges.  Except as 

11 This form assumes that the subscription term will auto-renew, but that the customer must be “warned” of 

such fact.  The provider may want to push back on this as it can be difficult to manager. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

expressly provided otherwise, there will be no other increase in the SaaS Charges. The provision of and 
rights  to  the  SaaS  Services  and  Application  Platform  will  automatically  renew  at  the  end  of  the  initial 
Term and any renewal term, unless: (i) Client notifies SaaS Provider in writing at least thirty (30) days 
prior to the expiration of the Initial SaaS Term or the then-current renewal term that Client does not desire 
to renew; (ii) Client fails to pay the undisputed SaaS Charges required under this Agreement and fails to 
cure such non-payment within ten (10) days notice from SaaS Provider; or (iii) SaaS Provider ceases to 
offer any other customer services similar to the SaaS Services and applications similar to the Application 
Platform and provides Client at least one (1) years prior notice of SaaS Provider’s intent to discontinue 
such services and platform for all its customers. 

5.4 

Payment of Fees.  All SaaS Charges, Professional Service Charges, and other amounts 
payable by Client under this Agreement (collectively, “Charges”), which are not disputed in good faith, 
are  due  and  payable  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  Client’s  receipt  of  the  applicable  invoice  submitted  in 
compliance with Exhibit F (Pricing; Invoicing; Expense Reimbursement).  If an undisputed Charge is not 
paid within ten (10) days after Client’s receipt of a notice from SaaS Provider of a past due Charge, a late 
payment  fee  of  one  percent  (1.0%)  of  the  balance  due  or  the  maximum  amount  permitted  by  law, 
whichever  is  lower,  will  be  due  and  payable  by  Client  to  SaaS  Provider  for  each  month  such  invoice 
remains  unpaid.    Client  will  not  have  any  obligation to  pay  any  disputed  amount  until  thirty  (30)  days 
after such dispute has been resolved and the amount owned (if any) by Client has been determined.  In the 
event Client disputes all or any portion of the Charges in any properly submitted invoice, the Parties agree 
to engage in good faith efforts to promptly resolve any such dispute  for at least ninety (90) days.  SaaS 
Provider will continue to provide the Service and perform its obligations until a resolution is reached or 
the Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.   

5.5 

Reimbursement of Expenses.  Client will reimburse  SaaS Provider for any reasonable 
out-of-pocket  expenses  which  comply  with  the  Expense  Reimbursement  Policy  set  out  in  Exhibit  F 
(Pricing; Invoicing; Expense Reimbursement) and are approved by Client prior to being incurred by SaaS 
Provider for the performance of the Professional Services.  SaaS Provider will submit to Client a weekly 
invoice for expenses incurred in such form and detail as Client reasonably requires. 

5.6 

Taxes.    Except  for  taxes  based  upon  SaaS  Provider’s  income  or  for  goods  or  services 
used  or  consumed  by  SaaS  Provider  in  connection  with  providing  the  Services  under  this  Agreement, 
Client will be responsible for all sales, use, excise, duties, tariffs, or any other form of taxes (excluding 
withholding  taxes  related  to  SaaS  Provider,  its  employees,  agents  or  subcontractors)  resulting  from 
Client’s use of the Application Platform or imposed, levied or assessed in connection with Client’s use of 
the Services and Application Platform, unless Client provides SaaS Provider with a valid tax exemption 
certificate authorized by the appropriate taxing authority.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, SaaS Provider 
will use reasonable, permissible efforts to minimize the tax burden to Client. 

5.7 

Right  to  Inspection.    Client  grants  to  SaaS  Provider,  or  its  independent  nationally 
recognized  accountants,  upon  fifteen  business  (15)  days  prior  written  notice,  the  right  to  reasonably 
examine  those  portions  of  its  books,  records  and  accounts  related  to  this  Agreement  during  Client’s 
normal  business  hours  and  not  more  than  once  per  year  solely  to  verify  Client’s  compliance  with  this 
Agreement.  If any audit of Client’s books and records reveals that Client has failed properly to account 
for  and  pay  any  amounts  due  and  payable  to  SaaS  Provider  hereunder  (an  “Underpayment”),  and  the 
amount of any such Underpayment exceeds by five percent (5%) or more the amounts actually accounted 
for and paid to  SaaS Provider, then  Client will pay SaaS Provider all undisputed past due amounts and 
reimburse SaaS Provider for SaaS Provider’s reasonable expenses incurred in conducting the audit.   

6. 

OWNERSHIP. 

7 

 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

6.1 

Ownership  Rights.    Except  for  the  license  and  other  rights  granted  to  Client  in  this 
Agreement,  SaaS  Provider  retains  all  right,  title  and  interest  in  and  to  the  Application  Platform, 
Documentation and SaaS Provider’s Confidential Information, including all Intellectual Property Rights 
therein.  Further,  Client  acknowledges  and  agrees  that  the  Application  Platform,  derivatives  thereof12, 
ideas,  methods  of  operation,  modifications,  changes,  enhancements,  conversions,  upgrades,  additions, 
sub-systems  and  modules  included  in  the  Application  Platform  are  proprietary  material  which  contain 
valuable trade secrets of SaaS Provider. 

6.2 

Ownership of Client Data.  SaaS Provider acknowledges and agrees that, as between the 
Parties,  Client  exclusively  owns  all  right,  title,  and  interest  in  and  to  Client’s  Confidential  Information 
and the Client Data, including all Intellectual Property Rights therein, irrespective of whether such Client 
Data  is  stored  or  processed  through  or  in  the  Services  or  Application  Platform.    If  SaaS  Provider  is 
deemed to have any ownership interest in Client’s Confidential Information or the Client Data, including 
any  and  all  derivative  works,  enhancements,  or  other  modifications  thereto,  then  SaaS  Provider  will 
assign, and hereby does assign, irrevocably and royalty-free, all of such ownership interest or other rights 
exclusively  to  Client  and  SaaS  Provider  will,  at  Client’s  reasonable  request  and  expense,  complete, 
execute, and deliver any and all documents necessary to effect or perfect such assignments. 

6.3 

Return  of  Client  Data.    Upon  termination  of  this  Agreement,  SaaS  Provider  will 
promptly return Client’s Confidential Information and Client Data to Client.  Thereafter, SaaS Provider 
will delete all Client Data and any related production and test environments from SaaS Provider servers 
primarily dedicated to Client and verify such deletion in writing to Client.  SaaS Provider acknowledges 
that Client will have the right to terminate this Agreement immediately, without further payment to SaaS 
Provider, and without prejudice to  Client’s rights and remedies under this  Agreement, in the event that 
SaaS Provider uses or permits the use of the  Client Data other than as permitted in connection with the 
performance of the Service hereunder.13 

6.4 

Deliverables.    Any  written  materials  or  deliverables  (collectively  “Deliverables”) 
prepared for Client (excluding any derivative works to the Application Platform or Documentation)14 will 
be the property of Client, and SaaS Provider agrees to assign and hereby does assign to Client any and all 
of its rights in such Deliverables.  Any Deliverable not assigned to Client is hereby licensed to Client as if 
it were part of the Application Platform or Documentation.  

6.5 

Residuals.  Subject to Sections 6 (Ownership) and 8 (Confidentiality and Data Security), 
each Party will be free to use any general concepts, techniques, feedback, and know-how provided to it, 
used by it, or developed in the course of this relationship. 

7. 

TERM OF AGREEMENT AND DEFAULT. 

7.1 

Term. The term of this Agreement will commence upon the Effective Date and  will be 
coterminous  with  the  initial  Order.    If  any  subsequent  Orders  or  SOWs  are  executed  by  the  Parties 

12 The customer should determine if it wants to own any custom-developed features. 

13 If the provider wants any additional use rights for the Client Data, e.g., the right to create aggregate data 
sets,  the  customer  should  be  careful  to  ensure  that  any  such  rights  are  consistent  with  applicable  law  (e.g.,  the 
CCPA) and with customer’s own privacy statements to its customers. 

14 The provider may want to require that only those Deliverables expressly stated to be owned by customer 

will be subject to this assignment. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

referencing  this  Agreement,  this  Agreement  will  continue  in  effect  with  respect  to  the  term  of  such 
subsequent  Orders  or  SOWs.    The  “Term”  means  the  term  of  such  initial  Orders  and  any  subsequent 
Orders or SOWs, including renewals and extensions.  Unless otherwise agreed in writing and subject to 
Section 5.3 (Automatic Renewal of SaaS Services), the Term will automatically extend for additional one 
(1) year periods unless Client provides SaaS Provider with notice of its intent not to extend within thirty 
(30) days of the end of the then-current Term. 

7.2 

Termination by SaaS Provider.  In the event that (x) Client fails to pay any Charges not 
disputed in good faith in accordance with this Agreement by the specified due date, and (y) Client fails to 
cure such failure within ten (10) days of receipt of written notice from SaaS Provider of its intention to 
terminate, then SaaS Provider may, by written notice to Client, terminate this Agreement in its entirety, 
provided  the  total  of all  such  overdue  Charges  exceeds,  in the aggregate,  the  average monthly  Charges 
invoiced  in  the  prior  twelve  (12) months.    In  addition,  SaaS  Provider  may,  by  written  notice  to  Client, 
terminate this Agreement in its entirety if Client (a) materially breaches (i) a provision of this Agreement 
relating  to  SaaS  Provider’s  Confidential  Information  or  Intellectual  Property  in  connection  with  this 
Agreement,  or  (ii)  a  provision  of  this  Agreement  relating  to  restrictions  on  the  use  of  the  Application 
Platform by third parties, and (b) fails to cure, to the extent reasonably practical, or mitigate such breach 
and implement safeguards to prevent similar future breaches in all other cases, within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of written notice from SaaS Provider of its intention to terminate.  SaaS Provider acknowledges 
and agrees that this section sets forth SaaS Provider’s sole and exclusive right to terminate. 

7.3 

Termination  by  Client.    Client  will  have  the  right  to  terminate  this  Agreement,  any 
Order,  or  any  SOW,  in  whole  or  in  part,  for  cause,  without  penalty  or  payment  to  SaaS  Provider,  by 
giving written notice to SaaS Provider as of a date specified in the notice of termination and will further 
have the right to seek damages from SaaS Provider (unless expressly provided otherwise in an Order for a 
particular termination right): 

(a) 

if  SaaS  Provider  commits  a  material  breach  (including,  without  limitation,  the 
failure to successfully complete any critical implementation milestone under an Order, SOW or Exhibit C 
(Implementation  Services)),  which  breach  remains  uncured  for  a  period  of  thirty  (30)  days  after  the 
receipt of written notice thereof from Client or that is not capable of being cured within thirty (30) days; 

(b) 

upon  the  occurrence  of  a  SLA  Termination  Event  as  described  in  Exhibit  E 

(Service Levels); 

(c) 

if SaaS Provider fails to perform its responsibilities under the Disaster Recovery 
Plan, if such failure is not timely cured and causes a material and adverse impact upon the operation of 
Client’s business; 

(d) 

if SaaS Provider fails to comply with any provision of this Agreement and such 
failure results in any payment card processor, credit card processor, bank, or other financial institution (A) 
imposing a fee or cost on Client that it would not have otherwise incurred which SaaS Provider does not 
pay within ten (10) days of written demand therefor (along with reasonable documentation verifying such 
fee  or  cost),  (B)  imposing  a  fine  or  sanction  on  Client  which  SaaS  Provider  does  not  pay  and/or  fully 
reimburse  Client  for  within  ten  (10)  days  of  written  demand  therefor  (along  with  reasonable 
documentation  verifying  such  fee  or  cost),  or  (C)    refusing  to  do  business  with  Client,  as  objectively 
demonstrated by Client, which such refusal materially adversely impacts Client’s business operations on 
an ongoing basis. 

9 

 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

7.4 

Bankruptcy.  Either Party will have the right to terminate this Agreement by providing 
written notice to the other Party upon the occurrence of any of the following events, but only to the extent 
such events are not dismissed within 120 days from the date such events first occurred:  (i) a receiver is 
appointed for the other Party; (ii) the other Party makes a general assignment of all or substantially all of 
its  assets  for  the  benefit  of  its  creditors;  (iii)  the  other  Party  commences  or  has  commenced  against  it, 
proceedings under any bankruptcy law; or (iv) the other Party ceases to do business. 

7.5 

Equitable Remedies.  Subject only to a court’s finding as to the merits of Client’s action 
relating  to  a  breach  of  the  Agreement  by  SaaS  Provider,  the  Parties  agree  to  injunctive  relief  to  cause 
SaaS  Provider  to  return  Client  Data,  continue  performance,  and,  to  the  extent  relevant,  Termination 
Assistance Services without requiring Client to post a bond. 

7.6 

Partial  Terminations;  Pro-Rata  Refund.    If  Client  terminates  the  Agreement  or  any 
Order  in  part  to  the  extent  and  as  expressly  permitted  hereunder,  the  remaining  Charges  under  the 
Agreement will be reduced in accordance with the pricing methodologies set forth in this Agreement and 
its Exhibits or the applicable Order or SOW to the extent applicable and as otherwise equitable under the 
circumstances.  If Client terminates the Agreement or any Order or SOW and has pre-paid any Charges, 
such Charges will be refunded on a pro-rata basis. 

7.7 

Termination  Assistance. 

  Upon  Client’s  request,  SaaS  Provider  will  provide 
Termination Assistance Services (as defined below) to Client chargeable at the rates in effect under this 
Agreement  If this Agreement is terminated by SaaS Provider for cause, then SaaS Provider’s obligation 
to  provide  Termination  Assistance  Services  will  be  conditioned  upon  Client  paying  to  SaaS  Provider, 
when  due,  all  outstanding  correct  invoices  for  Services  performed  prior  to  the  commencement  of  any 
Termination Assistance Services and Client continuing to pay, when due, any and all Charges correctly 
invoiced  due  hereunder  during  SaaS  Provider’s  performance  of  Termination  Assistance  Services.  
“Termination  Assistance  Services”  will  mean  (a) the  Services  (and  any  replacements  thereof  or 
substitutions  therefore),  to  the  extent  Client  requests  such  Services  during  the  Termination  Assistance 
Period, subject to payment of Charges therefor, (b) SaaS Provider’s reasonable cooperation with Client or 
another service provider designated by  Client in the migration  of Client Data stored on the Application 
Platform or Service to Client or another service provider designated by Client.  Such data transfers will be 
performed via secure means and without charge.  “Termination Assistance Period” will mean a period 
of time designated by Client, commencing upon termination or expiration and continuing for up to twelve 
(12)  months  thereafter,  during  which  period  SaaS  Provider  will  provide  the  Termination  Assistance 
Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 

7.8 

Effect of Termination.  Except as expressly set forth otherwise in this Agreement, upon 
termination  of  this  Agreement  and  following  expiration  of  any  Transition  Assistance  Period:  (i)  the 
licenses  and  rights  granted  hereunder  will  be  terminated  and  Client  will  immediately  cease  using  the 
Application Platform, Documentation, and SaaS Provider’s Confidential Information, (ii) the Application 
Platform (and associated hosting and support Services) will cease to be accessible to Client or to its users, 
(iii)  upon  the  Disclosing  Party’s  written  request,  the  Receiving  Party  will  immediately  return  all 
Confidential Information to the  Disclosing Party, and (iv) Client will pay, or SaaS Provider will refund 
(e.g., with respect to pre-paid amounts and credits) as applicable, all accrued SaaS Charges, Professional 
Services Charges, and Service Level Credits within thirty (30) days of the invoice or the date termination 
occurred, whichever is earlier.   

7.9 

No  Suspension.    Under  no  circumstances  may  SaaS  Provider  suspend  or  terminate 
Client’s or any Affiliate’s access to or use of the Application Platform or receipt of the Service other than 

10 

 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

pursuant to a proper termination of this Agreement in accordance with this Section 7 (Term of Agreement 
and Default) and, in each such case, only after expiration of the Transition Assistance Period. 

8. 

CONFIDENTIALITY AND DATA SECURITY. 

8.1 

General.    During  the  Term  of  this  Agreement  and  thereafter,  each  Party  will  treat  as 
confidential  all  Confidential  Information  of  the  other  Party,  will  not  use  such  Confidential  Information 
except  as  expressly  set  forth  herein  or  otherwise  authorized  in  writing,  will  implement  reasonable 
procedures  to  prohibit  the  unauthorized  use,  disclosure,  duplication,  misuse  or  removal  of  the  other 
Party’s  Confidential  Information and  will  not  disclose  such  Confidential  Information to any third  party 
except as may be necessary and required in connection with the rights and obligations of such Party under 
this Agreement, and subject to confidentiality obligations at least as protective as those set forth herein.  
Without  limiting  the  foregoing, each  of the  Parties  will  use  at  least  the  same  procedures and  degree  of 
care  which  it  uses  to  prevent  the  disclosure  of  its  own  confidential  information  of  like  importance  to 
prevent the disclosure of Confidential Information disclosed to it by the other Party under this Agreement, 
but in no event less than reasonable care. Except as expressly authorized in this Agreement, neither Party 
will copy Confidential Information of the other Party without the Disclosing Party’s prior written consent. 

8.2 

Exclusions.    Except  as  otherwise  provided  below,  Confidential  Information  will  not 
include,  or  will  cease  to  include,  as  applicable,  Confidential  Information  that  the  Receiving  Party  can 
document and prove: (a) is or becomes generally available to the public through no improper action or 
inaction  by  the  Receiving  Party;  (b)  was  known  by  the  Receiving  Party  or  in  the  Receiving  Party’s 
possession prior to receipt of the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information as shown by the Receiving 
Party’s business records kept in the ordinary course; (c) is disclosed with the prior written approval of the 
Disclosing Party; (d) was independently developed by the Receiving Party without use of or reference to 
the  Disclosing  Party’s  Confidential  Information and  provided that the  Receiving  Party  can  demonstrate 
such  independent  development  by  documented  evidence  prepared  contemporaneously  with  such 
independent  development;  or  (e)  becomes  known  to  the  Receiving  Party  from  a  source  other  than  the 
Disclosing Party without breach of this Agreement by the Receiving Party and otherwise not in violation 
of the Disclosing Party’s rights.  The exclusions in this section will not apply with respect to End User 
Data, Cardholder Data, or any other personal or private data that requires protection under applicable laws 
or regulations. 

8.3 

Court Order.  The Receiving Party may disclose Confidential Information of the other 
Party only pursuant to the order or requirement of a court, administrative agency, or other governmental 
body  and  only  provided  that  the  Receiving  Party  provides  prompt,  advance  written  notice  thereof  to 
enable the Disclosing Party to seek a protective order or otherwise prevent such disclosure.  In the event 
such a protective order is not obtained by the Disclosing Party, the Receiving Party will disclose only that 
portion  of  the  Confidential  Information  which  its  legal  counsel  advises  that  it  is  legally  required  to 
disclose.  Confidential Information so disclosed will continue to be deemed Confidential Information as 
between the Parties hereto. 

8.4 

Remedies.  If either Party breaches any of its obligations with respect to confidentiality 
or unauthorized use or disclosure of Confidential Information hereunder, the other Party is entitled to seek 
equitable and injunctive relief in addition to all other remedies that may be available to protect its interest. 

8.5 

Return.  Upon the Disclosing Party’s written request, the Receiving Party will promptly 
return  or  destroy,  at  the  Disclosing  Party’s  option,  all  tangible  copies  of  the  Disclosing  Party’s 
Confidential Information.  

11 

 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

8.6 

Data Security.  SaaS Provider will: (i) protect the security and integrity of the all Client 
Data that is collected, accessed, stored or received by SaaS Provider in connection with the Application 
Platform  or  the  performance  of  the  Services,  including,  without  limitation  all  End  User  Data  and 
Cardholder  Data;  and  (ii)  develop,  implement  and  maintain  a  written  comprehensive  security  program 
(“Security Program”) with administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect the  Client Data 
against  any  unauthorized  disclosure  or  use  of  such  data  and  any  anticipated  or  reasonably  foreseeable 
threats  or  hazards  to  the  security  or  integrity  of  such  Client  Data.    The  Security  Program must  comply 
with all applicable federal and state privacy laws.  In addition, SaaS Provider: (x) acknowledges that SaaS 
Provider is responsible for the privacy and security of any and all Client Data (including End User Data 
and Cardholder Data) that SaaS Provider or any of its employees, contractors or other representatives, at 
any time, accesses, stores, transmits, or otherwise possesses; and (y) will comply with Exhibit G (Security 
Audits)  and  with  all  applicable  rules,  regulations,  standards,  and  security  requirements  of  the  Payment 
Brands,  including,  without  limitation,  the  PCI-DSS,  in  each  case,  as  such  may  be  amended,  modified, 
supplemented, or replaced from time to time (“Security Requirements”). SaaS Provider will update and 
keep the Security Program current in light of changes in relevant technology and Security Requirements.  
SaaS Provider will maintain a complete audit trail of all transactions and activities associated with all End 
User Data and will provide Client with such audit information that covers the controls for any sites and 
facilities  from  which  the  Services  are  provided  and  any  location  where  the  End  User  Data  is  stored, 
complete  an  audit  or  self-assessment,  as  required,  to  certify  SaaS  Provider’s  compliance  with  the  PCI 
DSS and provide Client with such evidence, information, and documentation as is reasonably necessary to 
confirm that SaaS Provider is in compliance with all applicable Security Requirements. If during the term 
of  the  Agreement,  SaaS  Provider  undergoes,  or  has  reason  to  believe  that  it  will  undergo,  an  adverse 
change in its certification or compliance status with material  data security industry standards (e.g., PCI 
DSS), it will promptly notify Client of such circumstances in writing.   

8.7 

Security Events.  Without limiting any obligation of SaaS Provider herein, if at any time 
SaaS Provider discovers or otherwise becomes aware of any Security Event that impacts the Client, SaaS 
Provider will: (i) immediately notify Client of such Security Event and furnish Client with the full details 
of such Security Event; and (ii) cooperate with Client in any effort, action, or proceeding to protect the 
End User and/or Cardholder Data and to mitigate and/or remediate the impact of the Security  Event, as 
such  may  be  deemed  necessary  by  Client  and/or  required  by  applicable  laws  or  regulations,  including 
breach notification laws and credit reporting laws.  In the event of any Security Event, or at any time if 
requested  by  Client,  SaaS  Provider  will,  with  prior  reasonable  notice,  permit  Client,  a  Payment  Card 
Industry (“PCI”) representative, and/or a PCI approved third party (individually or collectively, the “PCI 
Auditor”), to conduct a thorough review of SaaS Provider’s books, records, files, computer processors, 
equipment, systems, physical and electronic log files, and facilities relating to the Services, to investigate 
or  remediate  a  Security  Event  or  validate  and  confirm  SaaS  Provider’s  compliance  with  the  Security 
Requirements (the “Breach Audit”).  SaaS Provider will provide the PCI Auditor with full cooperation 
and access to enable such Breach Audit.  If any Breach Audit identifies any failure of SaaS Provider to 
comply  with  the  Security  Requirements,  SaaS  Provider  will  promptly  repair  and/or  remedy  any  such 
failure  and  deliver  written notice  of  such efforts  and  remedy to  Client.    In  any  such  audit  above,  SaaS 
Provider may charge Client reasonable fees for use of SaaS Provider’s personnel during such audits and 
determine reasonable access restrictions as required to protect other clients, except to the extent such audit 
arose due to a Security Event or SaaS Provider’s failure to maintain the required certifications or comply 
with its material security obligations under this Agreement. 

8.8 

End User Notice.  If any disclosure, use or breach of any End User Data requires Client, 
under  applicable  laws  or  regulations,  to  make  a  disclosure  to  any  third  party,  Client  will  be  solely 
responsible for making such disclosure, including determining the content, methods, and means of such 
disclosure. SaaS Provider will reasonably cooperate with  Client in formulating the disclosure, but  SaaS 

12 

 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

Provider  will  not make  any  such  disclosure  at its  own  initiative  without  Client’s  prior  consent.    To  the 
extent the breach is caused by or related to a breach of the Agreement by SaaS Provider (or its employees, 
contractors,  service  providers, representatives,  or  advisors),  SaaS  Provider  will pay  all  reasonable  costs 
and  expenses  of:  (i)  such  disclosures  and  notification  (including  any  legal  or  forensic  expenses, 
fulfillment  service  expenses,  or  call  center  expense  relating  to  the  breach),  and  (ii)  any  applicable 
monitoring  and  reporting  on  the  impacted  individuals’  credit  records  or the restoration  of  the  impacted 
individuals’ credit or identity. 

9. 
PUBLICITY.  All media releases, public announcements and public disclosures by either Party 
relating  to  this  Agreement  or  the  subject  matter  of  this  Agreement,  or  using  the  other  Party’s  name  or 
trademarks,  service  marks  or  logos,  including  promotional  or  marketing  material,  but  not  including 
announcements intended solely for internal distribution or disclosures to the extent required to meet legal 
or  regulatory  requirements  beyond  the  reasonable  control  of  the  Disclosing  Party,  will  be  coordinated 
with  and  approved  by  the  other  Party  prior  to  release,  which  such  Party  may  withhold  in  its  sole 
discretion.    SaaS  Provider  will  ensure  that  any  approved  publicity  materials  referring  to  Client  remain 
current and accurate, and Client reserves the right to withdraw a previously granted approval and SaaS 
Provider will cease use of Client's name pending SaaS Provider's correction of any inaccurate materials. 

10. 

INDEMNIFICATION. 

10.1 

Indemnification.    SaaS  Provider  will  defend,  indemnify  and  hold  Client  and  its 
successors, parents, subsidiaries, Affiliates, officers, directors, employees, users, and attorneys harmless 
from  and  against  any  and  all  losses,  damages,  costs,  judgments,  liabilities,  and  expenses  (including 
reasonable attorneys’ fees court costs, and disbursements and costs of investigation, litigation, settlement, 
judgment,  interest,  fines  and  penalties)  (collectively,  “Losses”)  arising  out  of  or  relating  to:  (i)  any 
Security  Event,  (ii)  any  failure  by  SaaS  Provider  to  comply  with  Section  8  (Confidentiality  and  Data 
Security), including any Security Requirement; or (iii) any third party claims, demands, or proceedings (a 
“Claim”)  asserting  that  the  Application  Platform,  Services,  or  the  use  thereof  (as  permitted  under  this 
Agreement) infringes or misappropriates any third party’s Intellectual Property Rights.  

10.2  Procedure.  Client will give SaaS Provider prompt written notice of all Claims for which 
indemnity  is  sought  hereunder  and  will  provide  SaaS  Provider  with:  (a)  all  related  documentation  in 
Client’s possession or control relating to such Claims; and (b) reasonable assistance to SaaS Provider in 
the  defense  of  such  Claims.    SaaS  Provider  will  control,  at  SaaS  Provider’s  sole  cost  and  expense,  the 
defense or settlement of all such Claims and  will keep Client apprised of the status of all such Claims.  
Client  will  have  the  right,  but  not  the  obligation,  to  participate  in  the  defense  of  all  such  Claims  with 
counsel  of  Client’s  choice  at  Client’s  sole  cost  and  expense.    If  any  settlement  requires  any  action  or 
admission by Client, then the settlement will require Client’s prior written consent.  Failure by Client to 
provide prompt notice of a claim or to provide such control, authority, information or assistance will not 
relieve  SaaS  Provider  of  its  obligations  under  this  section,  except  to  the  extent  that  SaaS  Provider  is 
materially prejudiced by such failure.   

10.3  Limitations.  SaaS Provider will not have any liability or indemnification obligations to 
Client under Section 10.1(a)(iii) of this Agreement to the extent that any Losses arise directly as a result 
of:  (a)  use  of  a  Application  Platform  or  Services  by  Client  or  any  third  party  in  combination  with 
equipment,  materials,  products  or  software  not  authorized  by  SaaS  Provider  where  the  Application 
Platform or Services alone would not be infringing; or (b) compliance with designs, plans, or instructions 
provided to SaaS Provider by Client.   

13 

 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

10.4  License, Replacement or Refund.  If the Application Platform or Services becomes the 
subject  of  a  Claim  as  set  forth  in  Section  10.1(a)(iii)  above  or  if  SaaS  Provider  believes  that  the 
Application Platform or Services is likely to become the subject of a Claim, SaaS Provider may, at its sole 
discretion and expense: (i) obtain a license from such third party for the benefit of Client; (ii) replace or 
modify the Application Platform or Services (“Replacement”) so it is no longer the subject of a Claim so 
long  as  such  Replacement  performs  substantially  the  same  functions  as  the  Application  Platform  or 
Services  at issue;  or (iii) if  neither  of  the foregoing is  commercially feasible,  terminate this  Agreement 
and  refund  all  Charges  for  Implementation  Services  and  any  pre-paid  SaaS  Charges  or  Professional 
Services Charges (as applicable).15   

11. 

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. 

11.1  EXCEPT  AS  OTHERWISE  PROVIDED  IN  SECTION  11.3,  IN  NO  EVENT  WILL 
EITHER PARTY’S TOTAL AGGREGATE LIABILITY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS 
AGREEMENT  (INCLUDING,  BUT  NOT  LIMITED  TO,  CLAIMS  FOR  NEGLIGENCE,  STRICT 
LIABILITY,  BREACH  OF  CONTRACT,  MISREPRESENTATION,  INFRINGEMENT  OR  OTHER 
CONTRACT OR TORT CLAIMS) EXCEED THE TOTAL CHARGRES PAID BY CLIENT TO SAAS 
PROVIDER  DURING  THE  MOST  RECENT  12  MONTH  PERIOD  PRIOR  TO  THE  LAST  EVENT 
GIVING RISE TO LIABILITY. 

11.2  EXCEPT  AS  OTHERWISE  PROVIDED  IN  SECTION  11.3,  IN  NO  EVENT  WILL 
EITHER  PARTY  BE  LIABLE  FOR  INDIRECT,  SPECIAL,  PUNITIVE,  INCIDENTAL,  OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT EVEN IF INFORMED OF 
THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF IN ADVANCE. 

11.3  THE  PARTIES  EACH  ACKNOWLEDGE  AND  AGREE  THAT  THE  LIMITATIONS 
OF  LIABILITY  SET  FORTH  IN  THIS  SECTION  11  (LIMITATION  OF  LIABILITY)  WILL  NOT 
APPLY TO ANY LOSSES AS THE RESULT OF: (A) A SECURITY EVENT OR SAAS PROVIDER’S 
FAILURE  TO  COMPLY  WITH  SECTION  8  (CONFIDENTIALITY  AND  DATA  SECURITY), 
INCLUDING  ANY  SECURITY  REQUIREMENTS;  (B)  INDEMNIFICATION  OBLIGATIONS 
HEREUNDER;  (C)  A  WILLFUL  REFUSAL  BY  SAAS  PROVIDER  TO  PROVIDE  TERMINATION 
ASSISTANCE  SERVICES  AS  REQUIRED  HEREUNDER;  (D)  FRAUD,  WILLFUL  MISCONDUCT 
OR GROSS NEGLIGENCE; OR (E) SERVICE LEVEL CREDITS.16   

11.4  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all rights and remedies of the Parties are 
separate  and  cumulative.    The  waiver  or  failure  of  either  Party  to  exercise  in  any  respect  any  right  or 
remedy provided herein will not be deemed a waiver of any further right or remedy hereunder. 

12. 

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. 

12.1 

SaaS Provider represents and warrants to Client that: 

15 Each party may want to consider this provision carefully.  If the platform is mission-critical, the customer 
may want to require a minimum wind-down period.  Customer also may want to require some minimum duration on 
the provider’s efforts to secure a license. 

16  These  carve-outs  are  fairly  customer-favorable.    The  provider  may  request  that,  for  any  professional 
services, the sole remedy be re-performance.  The provider also may want to limit its exposure under some of these 
categories, e.g., by specifying that for security breaches liability is uncapped only as a direct result of the failure to 
adhere to agreed security procedures. 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

SaaS Provider is the owner of or licensee of all rights necessary and appropriate 
to perform the Services and grant the rights hereunder to the Application Platform and other Deliverables; 

(a) 

(b) 

SaaS Provider has the power and authority to enter into this Agreement;  

(c) 

the  Services  will  be  performed  in  a  timely,  professional  and  workman-like 
manner in accordance with industry standards, and with a degree of care, skill and expertise as is required 
for the provision of services of a similar nature;  

(d) 

the Application Platform and SaaS Services will be provided and perform in all 
material  respects17  the  functions  and  features  described  in  the  then  current  Documentation  and  as 
otherwise required under the applicable Order or SOW; SaaS Provider will promptly repair or replace any 
non-conformity associated with the Application Platform or SaaS Service so that each are in compliance 
with the Documentation and this Agreement; 

(e) 

SaaS Provider will not violate any law or regulation or any agreements with any 

third party as a result of performing its obligations under this Agreement;  

(f) 

there  are  neither  pending  nor  threatened,  nor  to  the  best  of  SaaS  Provider’s 
knowledge,  contemplated,  any  suits,  proceedings,  actions,  or  claims  which  would  materially  effect  or 
limit the rights granted to Client under this Agreement; 

(g) 

prior  to  making  available  the  Service  or  Application  Platform  (including  any 
updates,  upgrades,  or  enhancements)  to  Client  or  its  Affiliates,  SaaS  Provider  will  use  commercially 
reasonable efforts to detect and screen out any Virus or malicious code through the use of one or more 
current virus and malware detection programs.  For purposes of this Agreement, “Virus” means a set of 
computer  instructions  which  are  self-replicating  or  self-propagating  and  whose  purpose  or  effect  is  to 
contaminate  software,  consume  computer  resources,  or  modify,  destroy,  record  or  transmit  data  or 
programming  without the intent  or  permission of the user, including,  without limitation,  Trojan horses, 
worms or like destructive code; and  

(h) 

the  Documentation  will  be  sufficient  to  allow  a  user  qualified  in  the  subject 

matter of the application to use the Application Platform or Services.  

(i) 

EXCEPT  AS  EXPRESSLY  SET  FORTH  IN  THIS  AGREEMENT,  NEITHER 
PARTY  MAKES  ANY  REPRESENTATIONS  OR  WARRANTIES  WHATSOEVER,  WHETHER 
ORAL  OR  WRITTEN,  EXPRESS  OR  IMPLIED,  INCLUDING,  WIHTOUT  LIMITATION  AND  AS 
SATSIFACTORY  QUALITY, 
PERMITTED 
MERCHANTABILITY, ACCURACY OF RESULTS, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR 
NON-INFRINGEMENT,  ALL  OF  WHICH  ARE  EXPRESSLY  DISCLAIMED.    SAAS  PROVIDER 
DOES  NOT  WARRANT  THAT  THE  APPLICATION  PLATFORM  OR  THE  SERVICES  WILL  BE 
COMPLETELY ERROR FREE OR THAT THE USE OF THE APPLICATION PLATFORM WILL BE 
UNINTERRUPTED OR PROBLEM OR ERROR-FREE.   

LAW,  WARRANTIES  AS 

BY 

TO 

13. 
PLATFORM MODIFICATIONS.  SaaS Provider will provide Client with thirty (30) days prior 
written notice prior to rolling out any substantive modifications to the Application Platform or Services 

17 This is a functional representation.  The provider may prefer to delete any functional representation, and 

simply point to the SLA. 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

and such modification will not reduce or materially diminish the functionality of the Application Platform 
or Services. 

14. 
EXCUSABLE DELAY.  Neither Party will be liable to the other for any loss, damage, delay or 
breach in performing any obligations hereunder to the extent resulting from any cause or event beyond the 
control of the Party being released hereby, including acts of God, telecommunication or power suppliers, 
and acts or omissions of civil or military authorities, but only to the extent such Party being released did 
not contribute to and could not have reasonably prevented or mitigated the impact thereof (e.g., through 
redundancies  and  work-arounds  which,  in  the  case  of  SaaS  Provider,  include  execution  of  the  Disaster 
Recovery Plan and redundant Data Centers).  Nothing herein releases SaaS Provider from performing its 
disaster  recovery  and  business  continuity  obligations  or  being  responsible  for  its  contractors  or 
subcontractors.  SaaS Provider further agrees that (i) to the extent that any force majeure event prevents or 
hinders the use of the Services or Application Platform for more than five (5) consecutive days or ten (10) 
days in any calendar year, then Client may terminate and receive a refund of any pre-paid Charges and 
fifty percent (50%) of the Implementation Service Charges (less a reasonable allowance for straight-line 
amortization over a three (3) year period from first productive use), and (ii) no Charges will apply during 
any period in which the Services are not provided or the Application Platform is not available for use due 
to force majeure.  The Party seeking to be released under this Section will as soon as practicable notify 
the other Party of the force majeure event. 

15. 

INSURANCE.  SaaS Provider will maintain, for the Term, the insurance described below.  

15.1 

SaaS Provider’s Insurance.  SaaS Provider must maintain at its sole cost and expense, 
the  minimum  valid,  effective  and  collectible  insurance  of  the  following  types  and  minimum  coverage 
amounts: 

(a)  Workers’ Compensation.  Workers’ compensation or qualified self-insurance in 

compliance with the requirements of each state in which the Services are to be performed. 

(b) 

Employers’ Liability.  Employers’ liability insurance with a limit of not less than 
$1 million for bodily injury by accident, $1 million for bodily injury by disease, and $1 million for policy 
limits. 

(c) 

Commercial General Liability.  Commercial general liability insurance providing 
coverage on an occurrence form basis and including coverage for bodily injury, property damage, blanket 
contractual  liability  (including  coverage  for  SaaS  Provider’s  indemnification  obligations  under  this 
Agreement), products liability and completed operations.  The insurance must have limits of not less than 
$1 million each occurrence for bodily injury and property damage and personal and advertising injury, $2 
million  annual  general  aggregate,  and  $1  million  products  and  completed  operations  annual  aggregate.  
SaaS Provider’s Commercial General Liability policy or policies will provide that the insurance company 
has the duty to defend all insureds under the policy. 

(d) 

Auto Liability.  Auto Liability insurance with a limit of liability of not less than 
$1 million for any one accident or loss for bodily injury and property damage and affording coverage for 
Owned, Hired, Rented and Non-Owned vehicles. 

(e) 

Employee Dishonesty.  Employee Dishonesty coverage of $1 million endorsed to 

include coverage for loss arising out of or through the use of a computer system. 

16 

 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

(f) 

Professional Liability.  Professional Liability coverage with a limit of liability of 
not less than $5 million for financial loss due to error, omission, or negligence of SaaS Provider and its 
employees. 

(g) 

Cyber  Security.    Cyber  security  and  privacy  liability  coverage  of  at  least  $1 
million or evidence of expanded coverage for actual or alleged privacy breaches, confidentiality breaches, 
security  breaches,  and  on-line  media  activity  (including  any  claim  made  for  an  alleged  online  media 
activity  resulting  in  a  media  hazard)  within  Service  Provider’s  general  liability  or  professional  liability 
policies. 

Where  applicable,  Umbrella  or  Excess  liability  insurance  policies  may  be  used  to  provide  the  limits 
required under this Agreement. None of the foregoing requirements as to the type and limits of insurance 
to be maintained by SaaS Provider is intended to, and such requirements should not be construed to, limit 
in any manner SaaS Provider’s obligations under this Agreement. 

15.2 

Insurance Requirements.  All insurance policies must be primary and non-contributing 
and must be issued by companies licensed in the state where the Services are to be performed who hold a 
current  Policy  Holder  Alphabetic  Category  Rating  of  not  less  than  "A-"  and  Financial  Size  Category 
Rating of not less than "VII" according to the latest edition of A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide. Any other 
insurance carried by  Client, which may be applicable, will be deemed to be excess insurance and SaaS 
Provider's  insurance  must  contain  a  provision  that  it  is  deemed  primary  and  non-contributing  with  any 
insurance  carried  by  Client.    Each  insurance  policy  required  of  SaaS  Provider  must  contain  a  cross-
liability  or  separation  of  insureds  provision  that  provides  that  the  insurance  applies  separately  to  each 
insured against whom a claim is filed and that the policies do not exclude coverage for claims or suits by 
one  insured against  the  other.    SaaS  Provider's  insurance may be  provided  on the  basis  of  primary  and 
umbrella/excess  coverage  as  long  as  the  primary  coverage  is  a  minimum  of  $1  million  and  the 
umbrella/excess  coverage  is  at  least  as  broad  as  the  coverage  under  the  primary  policy,  including  the 
coverage  for  all  additional  insureds.    It  is  the  intent  of  the  Parties  to  have  SaaS  Provider's,  and  not 
Client's,  insurance  cover  claims  brought  against  either  Party  that  arise  out  of  or  are  related  SaaS 
Provider’s performance under this Agreement. 

15.3  Additional  Insured.18    All  of  SaaS  Provider's  insurance  must  not  be  terminated, 
permitted to expire, subject to non-renewal, or materially altered, except on 30 days' prior written notice 
to Client.  Such insurance must be maintained with deductible amounts, with insurers, and with forms that 
are  acceptable  to  Client  and  must  name  Client  as  an  additional  insured,  with  coverage  provided  such 
additional insured as broad as provided to the named insured; provided, however, that the foregoing will 
not  apply  with  respect  to  the  Workers'  Compensation  or  Employer's  Liability  Insurance.    Prior  to 
execution of this Agreement SaaS Provider must furnish certificates of insurance to Client evidencing all 
the insurance required above. SaaS Provider will not cancel or materially alter insurance coverage without 
providing thirty (30) days prior written notice to Client.  Notwithstanding anything else, if SaaS Provider 
fails  to  promptly  provide  Client  with  any  such  certificates,  Client  may  terminate  this  Agreement 
immediately upon notice to SaaS Provider.   

15.4 

Subrogation.    SaaS  Provider  hereby  waives  all  rights  of  recovery  against  Client  on 
account of loss  or  damage  occasioned  to  SaaS  Provider or others  under SaaS  Provider  's  control  or  for 
whom it is responsible to the extent such loss or damage is insured against under any of SaaS Provider 's 

18 Being named as an additional insured (in addition to the covenant for the vendor to maintain insurance) is 

normally reserved for larger transactions.  The provider may resist having its policies diluted for small accounts.   

17 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

insurance policies which may be in force at the time of the loss or damage or would have been insured 
against if SaaS Provider had complied with its obligations under this Article. 

15.5  Cooperation.  SaaS Provider agrees to reasonably assist and cooperate with Client with 
regard to the  adjustment  of  all claims  arising  out  of the  performance of the  Services  and  to  reasonably 
cooperate with Client and any insurance companies in litigation or other disputes relating to such claims. 

16. 

GENERAL. 

16.1  Waiver.  Any  waiver  or  failure  to  enforce  any  provision  of  this  Agreement  on  one 

occasion will not be deemed a waiver of any other provision or of such provision on any other occasion. 

16.2  Assignment. This Agreement will be binding on the Parties hereto and their respective 
successors and assigns.  Neither Party may, or will have the power to, assign this Agreement without the 
prior written consent of the other Party, except that Client may assign its rights and obligations under this 
Agreement, in whole or in part, to any then-existing Affiliate of Client or in the event of any merger, sale 
of all or substantially all of Client’s assets, or other similar transaction; provided that in no event will such 
assignment relieve Client of its obligations under this Agreement.  Subject to and except as set forth in the 
foregoing, any assignment by operation of law, by order of any court, or pursuant to any plan of merger, 
consolidation or liquidation, and any change of control of a Party will be deemed an assignment for which 
prior  consent  is  required,  and  any  assignment  made  without  any  such  consent  will  be  void  and  of  no 
effect.19  

16.3 

Subcontracting.    SaaS  Provider  will  not  subcontract  any  of  its  obligations  under  this 
Agreement without the prior written consent of Client, which consent Client may grant or withhold in its 
sole  discretion.    As  of  the  Effective  Date,  Client  grants  SaaS  Provider  the  right  to  subcontract  to  20 
[________].    SaaS  Provider  will  be  fully  responsible  for  the  performance,  acts,  and  omissions  of  any 
permitted  subcontractor.    SaaS  Provider  must  include  in  its  subcontracts  flow-down  provisions  as 
necessary  to  fulfill  its  obligations  under  this  Agreement,  including  those  pertaining  to  confidentiality, 
security, intellectual property, and audits. 

16.4  Direction  and  Control.    SaaS  Provider’s  personnel,  whether  employees,  independent 
contractors  or  subcontractors,  performing  Services  will  at  all  times  be  under  SaaS  Provider’s  exclusive 
direction and control and will not be deemed employees of Client.  SaaS Provider will be responsible for 
payment  of  its  independent  contractors,  subcontractors  and  its  employees’  entire  compensation  and 
benefits,  as  applicable, 
taxes,  worker’s  compensation,  unemployment 
compensation and any similar taxes associated with employment or their relationship.  Client and SaaS 
Provider agree that neither Party will be an employee, agent, partner or joint venturer of or with the other. 
SaaS Provider, in furnishing the Services, is acting as Client’s independent contractor. SaaS Provider will 
be  fully  responsible  for  the  acts  and  omissions  of  its  employees,  contractors,  subcontractors,  and  other 
delegates  as  if  they  were  performed  by  SaaS  Provider.  Neither  Party  has  any  authority  to  represent, 
contract, or commit the other in any matters, except as expressly authorized in this Agreement. 

including  employment 

19 Generally each party would want the right to assign in a change of control event.  The provider will not 

want to risk losing a long-term account simply because it is acquired (for example). 

20 Pre-approved subcontractors should be included. 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

16.5  Export.    The  Parties  will  not  export,  directly  or  indirectly, any  technical  data  acquired 
from the other Party pursuant to this Agreement (including the Platform Application) to any country for 
which the U.S. Government or any agency thereof at the time of export requires an export license or other 
government approval without first obtaining such license or approval. 

16.6  Governing  Law.  This  Agreement  is  governed  by  and  construed  in  all  respects  in 
accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  California,  U.S.A.  other  than  such  laws,  rules,  regulations, 
statutes,  and  case  law  that  would  result  in  the  application  of  the  laws  of  a  State  other  than  California 
(without regard to conflicts of laws principles), excluding the United Nations Convention on Contracts for 
the International Sale of Goods. 

16.7  Escalation.  

(a) 

Except as otherwise provided below, the following procedures will be followed 
in  any  and  all  legal  controversies  or  disputes  arising  out  of  or  related  to  this  Agreement  (“Disputes”), 
which the parties cannot informally resolve at an operational level.  The aggrieved Party  will notify the 
other  Party  in  writing  of  the  nature  of  the  Dispute  with  reasonable  specificity.   Representatives for  the 
respective Parties will meet (telephonically or in person) within fourteen (14) business days after the date 
of  the  written  notification  of  the  Dispute  to  seek  to  reach  an  agreement  on  the  Dispute  and  corrective 
action(s)  to  be  taken  by  the  respective  Parties.    If  the  representatives  are  unable  to  agree  on  corrective 
action, senior managers of the Parties having authority to resolve the Dispute (“Management”) will meet 
or otherwise act to facilitate an agreement within fourteen (14) business days after the date of the written 
report from the representatives.  If Management cannot resolve the Dispute or agree upon a written plan 
of  corrective  action  within  seven  (7)  days  after  their  initial  meeting,  or  if  the  agreed-upon  completion 
dates  in  the  written  plan  of  corrective  action  are  exceeded,  either  Party  may  exercise  their  individual 
rights under law or in equity.  Except as otherwise specifically in this section, neither Party will initiate 
litigation  unless  and  until  this  Dispute  resolution  procedure  has  been  employed  or  waived.  Each  Party 
agrees  that  it  will  continue  to  meet  its  obligations  under  the  terms  and  conditions  of  this  Agreement, 
except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 7 (Term of Agreement and Default). Any and all time 
periods  set  forth  above  may  be  extended  by  mutual  consent  of  the  Parties.  The  content  of  any  and  all 
discussions, negotiations, agreements, and/or disclosures made during this Dispute resolution process set 
forth in this section will be Confidential Information and as such  will not be released to the public, nor 
will  it  be  admissible  in  any  court  proceeding  that  a  party  or  the  parties  may  initiate  pursuant  to  this 
section. 

(b) 

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, nothing in this section will prevent or 
delay either Party from exercising its right to terminate in accordance with this Agreement and each Party 
is  authorized  to  institute  formal  proceedings  at  any  time  to:    (i) avoid  the  expiration  of  any  applicable 
limitations  period,  (ii) obtain  equitable  relief,  (iii) preserve  a  superior  position  with  respect  to  other 
creditors,  (iv) resolve  a  party’s  rights  with  respect  to  intellectual  property,  Confidential  Information,  or 
compliance, or (v) obtain injunctive relief.   

16.8  Venue.  Any claim, whether based on contract, tort or other legal theory (including, but 
not limited to, any claim of fraud or misrepresentation), arising out or relating to this Agreement or any 
Order  or  SOW,  including  its  interpretation,  performance,  breach  or  termination,  not  resolved  by  good 
faith  negotiations  and  escalation  as  specified  above,  will  be  brought  only  in  the  United  States  District 
Court for the Southern District of California or, if such court would not have jurisdiction over the matter, 
then  only  in  the  State  courts  located  in  San  Diego  County,  California,  and  each  of  the  Parties  hereto 
submits itself to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of such courts for the purpose of any such action. 

19 

 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

Service of process in any such action may be effected in the manner provided in Section 16.100 (Notices) 
for delivery of notices. 

16.9 

Interpretation.  If  any  provision  of  this  Agreement  is  found  to  be  unenforceable,  such 
provision will be deemed to be deleted or narrowly construed to such extent as is necessary to make it 
enforceable, and this Agreement will otherwise remain in full force and effect. 

16.10  Notices.  Except  as  provided  in  any  express  provision  of  this  Agreement,  any  notice, 
request,  approval,  authorization,  consent,  demand  or  other  communication  required  or  permitted  to  be 
given  or  made  pursuant  to  this  Agreement  will  be  in  writing  (except  where  oral  notice  is  specifically 
authorized in this Agreement) and will be deemed given upon actual receipt (or independent confirmation 
thereof) of notice by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid 
and addressed as follows:  

If to Client: 

With a copy to:   

If to SaaS Provider:  

A  Party  may  from  time  to  time  change  its  address  or  designee  for  notification  purposes  by  giving  the 
other prior written notice of the new address or designee and the date, at least twenty (20) days from the 
date of the notice, upon which it will become effective. 

16.11  Orders.  All Orders and SOWs are subject to and incorporate this Agreement, including 
its Exhibits.  If there is a conflict between (i) an Order or SOW and (ii) these Terms and Conditions, these 
Terms and Conditions takes precedence, unless expressly provided otherwise.  In addition, these Terms 
and Conditions take precedence over the Exhibits.  

16.12  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, including execution by 
facsimile, pdf or other electronic transmission, which, when taken together, will be deemed to constitute 
one and the same Agreement. 

16.13  Compliance with Laws and Regulations.  SaaS Provider will perform its obligations in 
a manner that complies with applicable federal, state, and local laws, regulations, ordinances and codes 
(including identifying and procuring required permits, certificates, approvals and inspections), including 
laws prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, age, sex, ancestry, medical condition, 
marital status, sexual orientation, veteran status, handicap, or national origin.  If a charge occurs of non-
compliance  by  SaaS  Provider  with  any  such laws,  regulations, ordinances  or  codes,  SaaS  Provider  will 
promptly notify Client of such charge in writing. 

16.14  Entire  Agreement.    This  Agreement  (including  its  Orders,  SOWs,  and  Exhibits) 
constitute the entire agreement between SaaS Provider and Client with respect to the subject matter of this 
Agreement,  and  may  only  be  modified  by  a  written  amendment  or  addendum  signed  by  both  SaaS 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Information is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

Provider and Client.  No employee, agent, or other representative of either  SaaS Provider or  Client has 
authority  to  bind  the  other  with  regard  to  any  statement,  representation,  warranty,  or  other  expression 
unless it is specifically included within the express terms of this Agreement or a written addendum signed 
by  both  SaaS  Provider  and  Client.    All  purchase  orders,  prior  agreements,  representations,  statements, 
proposals,  negotiations,  understandings,  and  undertakings  with  respect  to  the  subject  matter  of  this 
Agreement are superseded by this Agreement.   

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  Parties  have  executed  this  Master  Software-as-a-Service 

Agreement as of the date below. 

CLIENT 

SAAS PROVIDER 

By: 

Name:  

Title:   

Date:   

By: 

Name:  

Title:   

Date:   

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The below form is made available for general informational purposes only, and is not intended to constitute specific 
legal advice or to be a substitute for advice from qualified counsel. 

EXHIBIT A 
ORDER FORM 

EXHIBIT B 
DISASTER RECOVERY PLAN 

EXHIBIT C 
IMPLEMENTATION SERVICES 

EXHIBIT D 
CHANGE CONTROL PROCEDURES 

EXHIBIT E 
SERVICE LEVELS 

EXHIBIT F 
PRICING; INVOICING; EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT 

EXHIBIT G 
SECURITY AUDIT 

ACC FORM  

22 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
